i'm uh
the blockchain developer of litecoin and
i'm working on
uh our blockchain called litecoin chain
which is a cosmos sdk based blockchain
so my topic is connecting
some uh translating cosmetic sdk based
blockchain to ipfs
and this talk is this sharing is
basically a very quick introduction
of uh the case study on uh which is now
on the
ipfs documents thanks to the ipfs team
so if you want more details you can read
the uh
read the case study yeah so
let's get started so
first uh let me introduce what is a
cosmos sdk
cosmetic sdk is an sdk uh not developed
by us but
by the cosmos team which is for easily
developing application specific
blockchains uh
it provides many modules that are
many blockchains would like to have for
example defining a token
or having governance or having a staking
so that
the blockchain can run on a proof of
stake
so uh and then developers can make
their own uh modules so that uh whether
we
for the functionality of their own
blockchain so that it is
called the application specific
blockchain which
the application is actually the
application logic of
what the developer wants and uh
here are some chains that is using
cosmos sdk
uh the cosmis hub which the token is
atom
uh and also the finance chain uh
this one should be quite famous and also
iris snatch and band protocol these are
some famous
blockchains using based on the block
cosmos sdk so they have similar
interfaces
and yeah they have similarities on their
codebase too and of course our
blockchain litecoin chain is also
defined also developed based on
cosmos sdk so
you can go to the cosmos website for
more uh details on that
and for blockchain like on chang it is a
blockchain uh
specified on content related
functionalities for example we define
the token litecoin which is
uh distributed to distributed content
creators in order to reward
content creators and uh currency
we're developing a function called iscn
which is a called international standard
content number
if you go to library you will read books
you will notice that
the books all have isbn
international standard book number
and we borrow the idea and want to
generalize it for
all contents on the internet so that
people
content creators like video creators or
writers who write articles uh can
register their content
and their content metadata uh on
a blockchain and then as uh given uh
given an id for their content so that
others can distribute this
i can recognize it attributes the
contents by
this id just like the
the isbn that you can search and or
identify a book using
the number and then uh
if you have uh we have content metadata
storing on chain therefore we want to uh
we want it to be uh more uh searchable
and
accessible from uh everywhere anywhere
on the
internet so we think that ipfs is a
great
network for distributing these data so
that we think that
uh if uh if we can use ipfs to access
the iscn metadata then that would be a
good idea
so i would like to uh we
would like to implement this idea
through the top ends of ipfs
the main implementation of ipfs is go
ipfs
and it supports plugins
basically there are two types of plugins
one is datastore
which defines how to store or load data
just like uh for example which backend
of database
is are being used by default it should
be level db
which is a very quick database anyway
and another type of plugin is uh ipld
plugins which defines how to interpret
data
uh actually previous speakers have
already talked about
how they use ipld or expanded so
i think you understand that maybe even
more than me
so uh we made two plugins for that uh
for our purpose one is the cosmos d
which is a data store uh
for carrying cosmos sdk later
originally we want to embed it into the
blockchain
so that it can share the database with
the block
with the blockchain code so that you can
directly read the blockchain
just like the blockchain database just
like
when you're using leveldb level
db datastore it will directly read the
leveldb
but we find that in cosmos sdk uh
these databases are actually assumed to
be a
kind of single thread this so that uh
it's not quite possible to share the
database instance with the plugin
without
say breaking the logs or concurrent ss
limitations
so then we think that uh
we need to be more generalized so that
so that it is less intrusive and then
and uh multiple implementers of the
module developers of the
cosmos sdk could be uh
could be easily in uh easily using our
plugins so
we decided to use the
dlpc endpoints provided from the cosmos
sdk
which is a mechanism that you read from
the blockchain
so now uh the cosmos the data store it
will be reading
data from cosmos rpc endpoints
another one is isc and ipld which which
is an ipld extension
for passing ic icm related data stores
this is the url for the ibfs
plugins for the introduction to ipfs
plugins if you
if you are interested in that
so uh basically this is uh architecture
on the left hand side we have a cosmos
sdk based blockchain
say for example like one chain it will
have some more drills each modules will
expose their own rpg endpoints
and our module icm module will expose
some specific endpoints for
uh for the cosmos data for the cosmos
data store plug-in
mainly it exposed three functions for
querying if a data exists on
uh on the blockchain the size of the
data
and also the date and finally the data
itself
and then on on the ipfs side
or whenever
the plugin the main plugin will be
cosmos d
which is the cosmos data store and
uh when someone query either from remote
or locally
uh cid it will first analyze the cid to
see
uh to see if the type is actually the
type of the crd is actually
a cosmos sdk or cosmos sdk one
and if so it will uh process uh
it will process it through the lpc
endpoint
so that it will carry the it will call
the specific endpoints defined by
ifcn module or so that
so that it will retrieve the cid raw
data from the
from the blockchain and then uh
if it's not a cid uh not the data that
that is from cosmos sdk then the request
will be simply forwarded to
uh to the basic uh level db
plug-in and after that uh
if it is a local request then maybe the
user
needs to uh wants to pass the ipld data
so that
so the city data will be passed by the
ic and ipld
plugin so that it will be a humor
rebuttable one
and then the response is given to the
user
so as you can see it's basically a
very simple architecture that actually
it does not involve
any cosmos related stuff on the
on the data store size so maybe it
should be called
i don't know ipfs http datastore
or something like that so our target is
to
be least intrusive for both cosmos
developers and ipfs
users so for ipfs users ideally they
they just need to compile the plugins
and then install them on their
ipfs clients then it could be used then
it will be usable
after some configuration and for cosmis
sdk module developers not only for
blockchain
they only need to have defined a few
extra endpoints
for exposing for exposing their
contents their contents through the rpc
endpoints
and also defining their data through the
cids
defining the ci deformation of the data
which is the ideal depart
then then after that it would be
possible for them to push
to make their blocking data accessible
through the ipfs network
also this architecture is simple enough
for generalization for example if it's
not
for sdk module cosmos module data but
for the
block data or transaction hash then we
could easily
implement that in the data store part
just curing the endpoint defined by the
cosmos sdk themselves
and as i've said it's also generalized
for uh different
cosmos sdk modules so not just our own
blockchain
not just like one change and access it
but also other
blockchain other developers can use this
can use this method to make their
data accessible through ipfs
so this is basically what i want to
share about
uh uh uh
cosmos uh sdk plugin for
ipfs for info accessing cosmos sdk based
blockchain
uh as i said before uh if you uh if
you're interested in that
uh you can you can have a look on the
case study
which is quite detailed and also if you
are interested in
litecoin you can go to like.co for to
uh which is our main website and our
codebase is
in uh on github you can search litecoin
and then you can see our
repositories yeah that's quite a lot of
metric